Introduce the SPIFFE Trust Domain and Bundle specification (#106)
spiffe/spiffe: standards/SPIFFE_Trust_Domain_and_Bundle.md

> # The SPIFFE Trust Domain and Bundle

Author: In the course of porting this document to markdown, I realized that none of the SPIFFE specs have authors listed. I will submit another PR once this one is in, retroactively crediting authors involved in each of the SPIFFE documents

4.1.2. [Refresh Hint](#412-refresh-hint)  
4.1.3. [Keys](#413-keys)  
4.2. [JWK](#42-jwk)  
4.2.1. [Key Type](#421-key-type)  
4.2.2. [Public Key Use](#422-public-key-use)  
5\. [SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint](#5-spiffe-bundle-endpoint)  
5.1. [Endpoint Stability](#51-endpoint-stability)  
5.2. [Authenticating the Bundle Endpoint](#52-authenticating-the-bundle-endpoint)  
5.2.1. [Web PKI](#521-web-pki)  
5.2.2. [SPIFFE Authentication](#522-spiffe-authentication)  
6\. [Security Considerations](#6-security-considerations)  
6.1. [Securing SPIFFE Bundle Transmission](#61-securing-spiffe-bundle-transmission)  
6.2. [SPIFFE Bundle Refresh Hint](#62-spiffe-bundle-refresh-hint)  
6.3. [Using Web PKI on a SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint](#63-using-web-pki-on-a-spiffe-bundle-endpoint)  
6.4. [Reusing Cryptographic Keys Across Trust Domains](#64-reusing-cryptographic-keys-across-trust-domains)  
Appendix A. [SPIFFE Bundle Example](#appendix-a-spiffe-bundle-example)  
Appendix B. [Bundle Endpoint Authentication Examples](#appendix-b-bundle-endpoint-authentication-examples)  
Appendix B.1. [Web PKI-based Endpoint Authentication](#appendix-b1-web-pki-based-endpoint-authentication)

> Appendix B.2. [SPIFFE-based Endpoint Authentication](#appendix-b2-spiffe-based-endpoint-authentication)

Reviewer: This line is appearing on the same line as previous in the rich preview.

This specification defines the nature and semantics of both SPIFFE trust domains and bundles. It also defines the "bundle endpoint", a mechanism by which SPIFFE bundles may be communicated between trust domains.

## 2. Trust Domains
A SPIFFE trust domain is an identity namespace which is backed by an issuing authority with a set of cryptographic keys. Together, these keys serve as the cryptographic anchor for all identities residing in the trust domain.

Trust domains have a 1:N relationship with the keys that back them. A single trust domain may be represented by multiple keys and key types. For example, the former may be leveraged during root rotation, while the latter is necessary in avoiding multi-protocol attacks should more than one SVID type be in use.

> It should be noted that while it is possible to share cryptographic keys amongst many trust domains, it is strongly encouraged to maintain a one-to-one mapping between a trust domain and any given authoritative key. Key reuse can degrade trust domain isolation (e.g. between staging and production) and introduces additional security challenges (e.g. requiring a name constraint system for secondary issuers). Please see the [Security Considerations](#6-security-considerations) section for more information on this topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should be noted that while it is possible to share cryptographic keys amongst many trust domains, we strongly advise that each authoritative key be used in a single trust domain. Key reuse can degrade trust domain isolation (e.g. between staging and production) and introduces additional security challenges (e.g. requiring a name constraint system for secondary issuers). Please see the [Security Considerations](#6-security-considerations) section for more information on this topic.
```

- passive voice sounded strange
- it's not 1:1; we just said in the previous paragraph that it's 1:N

SPIFFE bundles are designed for use within and between SPIFFE control plane implementations. They are not meant for direct consumption by workloads, however this specification does not preclude such use.

When storing or otherwise managing SPIFFE bundles, it is important to independently record the name of the trust domain that the bundle represents, nominally through the use of a `<trust_domain, bundle>` tuple. When validating an SVID, validators must choose the bundle corresponding to the trust domain that the SVID resides in, so maintaining this relationship is required in most scenarios.

Note that the contents of a trust domain's bundle are expected to change over time as the keys it contains are rotated. It is the responsibility of the SPIFFE implementation to distribute bundle content updates to workloads as needed. The exact format and method by which these updates are delivered is out of scope for this specification. Please see the [SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint](#5-spiffe-bundle-endpoint) section for more information about SPIFFE bundle rotation, and the [SPIFFE Workload API][3] specification for information on delivering updates to workloads.

## 4. SPIFFE Bundle Format

> SPIFFE bundles are represented as an [RFC 7517][4] compliant JWK set. JWK was chosen for two major reasons. First, it provides a flexible format for representing various types of cryptographic keys (and documents like X.509), affording some degree of future proofing in the event that new SVID formats are defined. Second, it is widely supported and deployed, used primarily for inter-domain federation, which is a core goal of the SPIFFE project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SPIFFE bundles are represented as an [RFC 7517][4] compliant JWK Set. JWK was chosen for two major reasons. First, it provides a flexible format for representing various types of cryptographic keys (and documents like X.509), affording some degree of future proofing in the event that new SVID formats are defined. Second, it is widely supported and deployed, used primarily for inter-domain federation, which is a core goal of the SPIFFE project.
```

Since this field is not mandatory, it is possible to encounter SPIFFE bundles that do not have a `refresh_hint` set. In this case, a client has the option of using a suitable interval by examining SVID validity periods. It should be acknowledged that omitting a `refresh_hint` will likely impact the ability of a trust domain to rapidly revoke compromised keys. Clients should default to a relatively low (e.g. five minutes) refresh interval to be able to retrieve updated trust bundles in a timely manner.

### 6.3. Using Web PKI on a SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint
Web PKI provides a convenient way to authenticate remote SPIFFE bundle endpoints as publicly trusted authorities can negate the need for an initial out-of-band bundle exchange (as is the case when using SPIFFE authentication). While largely reliable, there are some tradeoffs and drawbacks that should be considered before its use.

> The first and most obvious is that you are assuming trust in the public certificate authorities and in their fulfillment procedures. Any public CA can sign a certificate for the domain name where your bundle endpoint is hosted that will appear valid. While this may be an unacceptable risk to some, most users are OK with it given the convenience it provides and the historical stability of the public CA infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: Consider changing the second sentence to improve readability: Publicly trusted CAs have the technical ability to sign certificates which will be broadly trusted and therefore could, in theory, sign a valid certificate for the host name used to serve your bundle endpoint.

Nit: third sentence: consider s/OK/okay/.

### 6.4. Reusing Cryptographic Keys Across Trust Domains
This specification discourages sharing cryptographic keys across trust domains since the practice degrades trust domain isolation and introduces additional security challenges. When a root key is shared across multiple trust domains, it becomes critically important that authentication and authorization implementations carefully check the trust domain component of an identity and that the trust domain component be easily and habitually expressed in authorization policies.

> Suppose that a naïve implementation imported (ie. fully trusted) a particular root key and that the authentication system were configured to authenticate the SPIFFE identity of any SVID which chained up to the trusted root key. If the naïve implementation is not configured to only trust a specific trust domain, then any identity issued in any trust domain could be authenticated (so long as the SVID chains up to the trusted root key). Successful authentication of an external trust domain is not a problem per se since the risk can be mitigated by a correctly implemented authorization system; however, this risk could alternatively be mitigated by simply not reusing root keys across trust domains.

Reviewer: > however, this risk could alternatively be mitigated by simply not reusing root keys across trust domains.

I don't believe that not-reusing root keys across trust domains actually mitigates the example you gave (unless I'm misunderstanding the example).

Let's say my trust domain is `spike.name` and I'm federating with your trust domain, `evan.name`. Further, you and I do not share any root keys.  If I import your bundle, but my authentication system is configured to authenticate any identity that chains up to a trusted root key, it means that you can issue SVIDs for `spiffe://spike.name/admin`, and my system will accept them.  No amount of checking at the authorization layer will save me in that case.

Reviewer 2: What I'm attempting to highlight here are some of the perils in using a root key/cert for multiple trust domains. I'm trying to point out that it's insufficient to simply checking whether a certificate chains up to a trusted root; that the implementation must have an explicit trust domain to trust bundle mapping as part of the authentication process. (And I believe your example also highlights this peril.) I think the difference between what you're saying and what I wrote is that I'm not making an assumption that the operator has taken an additional step to federate with another mesh. In my example, the operator has not explicitly federated with another mesh, but has simply imported the root cert to which the certificates in the mesh chain up to. This situation could arise, for example, in an environment where the mesh does not use a CA dedicate to a single trust domain, but relies on some CA which mints certificates for multiple trust domains.

Reviewer: Yeah, that makes sense. It seems the high level point is that authentication systems really, really must check trust domain components when validating SPIFFE IDs. Hopefully we already make that point in the SVID specs, and it's useful to make again here.  There are several failure modes of failing to do this check including your example of a single CA issuing for multiple domains (without malice) and my example of a foreign CA forging SVIDs for the local trust domain.

> Suppose that a naïve implementation imported (ie. fully trusted) a particular root key and that the authentication system were configured to authenticate the SPIFFE identity of any SVID which chained up to the trusted root key. If the naïve implementation is not configured to only trust a specific trust domain, then any identity issued in any trust domain could be authenticated (so long as the SVID chains up to the trusted root key). Successful authentication of an external trust domain is not a problem per se since the risk can be mitigated by a correctly implemented authorization system; however, this risk could alternatively be mitigated by simply not reusing root keys across trust domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose that a naïve implementation imported (ie. fully trusted) a particular root key and that the authentication system were configured to authenticate the SPIFFE identity of any SVID which chained up to the trusted root key. If the naïve implementation is not configured to only trust a specific trust domain, then any identity issued in any trust domain could be authenticated (so long as the SVID chains up to the trusted root key).
```

I think we should just strike the last sentence, and avoid planting the seed of the idea that having each trust domain have a unique key is an appropriate alternative to robustly implemented authentication.

The message is
 a) we recommend you don't share keys across trust domains
 b) _if you are_ going to share keys, you better make damned sure that authn and authz are robust and trust-domain aware (which you should be doing anyway)

Author: Thanks Spike. I think that @justinburke has already stated that he's in agreement with this change so I went ahead and applied it (Justin, please chime in if that's not the case)

## Appendix A. SPIFFE Bundle Example
In the following example, we configure an initial SPIFFE bundle for the trust domain `example.com` and then demonstrate how the bundle is updated during root key rotation.

Initial X.509 CA certificate for trust domain `example.com`:

```
Certificate #1:
    Data:
        Version: 3 (0x2)
        Serial Number:
            df:d0:ad:fd:32:9f:b8:15:76:f5:d4:b9:e3:be:b5:a7
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: O = example.com
        Validity
            Not Before: Jan  1 08:00:45 2019 GMT
            Not After : Apr  1 08:00:45 2019 GMT
        Subject: O = example.com
        X509v3 extensions:
            X509v3 Key Usage: critical
                Certificate Sign
            X509v3 Basic Constraints: critical
                CA:TRUE
            X509v3 Subject Alternative Name:
                URI:spiffe://example.com/
[...]
```

Note that the certificate:
1. is self-signed (Issuer and Subject are the same);
1. has the CA flag set to true;
1. and is a SVID (has a spiffe URI SAN).

The corresponding trust bundle for `example.com`:
```
Trust bundle #1 for example.com:
{
	"spiffe_sequence": 1,

>         "spiffe_refresh_hint": 2419200,

Reviewer 2: There is an extra leading space on this line.

	"keys": [
		{

> 			"kty": "RSA"

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

			"use": "x509-svid",

> 			"x5c": ["<base64 DER encoding of Certificate #1>"]

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

> 			"n": "<base64urlUint-encoded value>"

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

In preparation for the eventual expiration of `example.com`’s CA certificate, a replacement certificate is generated and added to the trust bundle:
```
Certificate #2:
    Data:
        Version: 3 (0x2)
        Serial Number:
            a4:dc:5f:05:8a:a2:bf:88:9d:a4:fa:1e:9a:a5:db:74
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: O = example.com
        Validity
            Not Before: Feb  15 08:00:45 2019 GMT
            Not After : Jul  1 08:00:45 2019 GMT
        Subject: O = example.com
        X509v3 extensions:
            X509v3 Key Usage: critical
                Certificate Sign
            X509v3 Basic Constraints: critical
                CA:TRUE
            X509v3 Subject Alternative Name:
                URI:spiffe://example.com/
[...]
```

The updated trust bundle for `example.com` published on Feb 15:
```
Trust bundle #2 for example.com:
{
	"spiffe_sequence": 2,

>         "spiffe_refresh_hint": 2419200,

Reviewer 2: Extra leading space on this line, too.

	"keys": [
		{

> 			"kty": “RSA”

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

			"use": "x509-svid",

> 			"x5c": ["<base64 DER encoding of Certificate #1>"]

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

> 			"n": "<base64urlUint-encoded value>"

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

			"e": "AQAB"
		},
		{

> 			"kty": “RSA”

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

			"use": "x509-svid",

> 			"x5c": ["<base64 DER encoding of Certificate #2>"]

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

> 			"n": "<base64urlUint-encoded value>"

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma
